Right welcome to the bonus section of the course in this section of the Course I'll be adding bonus
sections as time goes on.
For now we're just going to be creating an animated play button.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to create the button and then I'm going to create the
second frame with that button so it can be animated.
Once we've done that we'll create a sprite for it so that way you can actually use it in your game.
So first what we want to do is we want to come over here to our shape tool and we want to select the
rounded rectangle tool and we're going to go ahead and make a shape just like so.
Next let's go ahead and turn off the stroke and turn on the fill and we want to fill it with a gradient.
Now we want to go from dark to light.
So we're going to go ahead and switch these colors around.
So we're going to change this to our main color which is going to be a purple.
So when it comes over in here and then come into my purple or violets and then I'll go ahead and hit
OK.
Then we want to change our white color to a black grit.
Now we want to change the roundness of our edges.
So right now it's at 30 pixels and we want to change that to make it.
So it's completely rounded like a pill.
So I get to go ahead and type in 70 in there enter and it would only let us round it to 57 pixels which
is fine but that's as far as it can be rounded.
So now we have a perfect pill.
Next let's go ahead and add an effect to this layer.
So now come down to my effects and I'm going to add a bevelled an embossed edge.
Now let's go ahead and turn down the depth to about there and then let's turn down the size to about
10 pixel should be good.
Then I'm just going to leave the opacity for my highlight 81 percent and the opacity for my shadow at
70 percent and I'll go ahead and hit.
OK.
All right.
So now we have the basic set up for our button.
Now this is going to be a glossy button.
So we want to add a highlight on here.
So the way we're going to do that is by copying our shape.
So Poppy the layer and then we're going to go ahead and turn off the effects by hitting that icon next
to effects.
And then we want to change the color of our shape.
So I'm going to go ahead and come up here to where it says Phil and this will only show up if you have
your shape tool selected.
So if this isn't at your top bar go ahead and select your shape tool and then you'll be able to change
your fill.
So I'm going to select that and I'm going to fill it in with a solid color and where you want white.
So I'm going to come into my color picker and select a white gripped next to what we want to do is we
want to use our Transform Tool to shrink the shape down.
So going to go control T and then going to go ahead and shrink down holding down shift to keep its portions
and holding down to shrink it from the center.
And I'm going to shrink it to about that size then I want to shrink it upwards like so so it gets squashed.
So about there should be good.
Maybe just the tiniest bit more too about there.
Well hit enter next.
Let's go ahead and use the grab and move tool and the arrows on our keyboard to nudge this up towards
the top.
But we still want to leave a little gap right there.
And this is going to create the glossy effect for us now.
Right now it looks glossy but the way we're going to make it look even more glossy is by bringing down
the opacity.
So it looks transparent.
So we'll bring down that opacity on that layer to a bout.
Let's bring it to about 13 percent.
That looks good.
Great.
Now let's add some reflections to the corners of our button.
So I'm going to go ahead and add a new layer above this layer and then I'm gonna zoom in there and using
my brush tool and making sure I'm on a hard edged brush like this one right here.
I'm going to go ahead and paint in Ixo and painted it one out there and I'll do the same on the other
side.
So paint a little line like so and then add a dot.
You can also add a second dot on the other side that's smaller.
So maybe a little bit too small so you can add one like that and that just makes it looks a little bit
more interesting.
Great.
So now we have our button now.
This reflection on top is looking a little bit too small.
So going to come back down into that layer turn on my Transform Tool and holding down old.
So it stretches from the center.
I'm going to go ahead and pull it over like so and I'm also going to bring it up just a little bit more
than I enter.
All right.
That looks better to me.
Next we want to add our text in so that I'm going to come to my text.
Which by the way is the letter T on your keyboard.
If you want to know what the hockey is and then I'm going to go ahead and add a new layer above this
and click to start my text and then I'm just going to type out play now.
I already have my text set to the correct typeface.
The font is called OCR a s t d.
And you can go ahead and search that up here.
It's included with Photoshop.
Next sort of want to do is I want to add a bevelled and embossed effect to my text so I don't come down
to effects but I need to switch out of my text tool to do this.
And then I can come down to my effects and then we're going to come up to Bevil and emboss and rather
than bevelling and embossing it from the inner like we had on our gem button we're going to go ahead
and select Pellow and boss and what that does is it makes it look like it's actually embossed into the
button itself.
Next I'm going to go ahead and play with my settings so I can play with my depth.
So I'm going to put that about at 200 percent and then I can also play with the size someone to bring
that down.
To about 13 pixels and then I'm going to play with the softness and I'm going to put that at about let's
say nine pixels.
I think that looks good and I'm going to go ahead and leave my settings down here the same way we've
always had them.
So 80 percent from a highlight and 70 percent for my shadow.
Let's go ahead and hit.
OK great.
So now we have the first frame for our button.
So this is what the button would look like if it's not being pressed now we need to create the next
frame for when the button is being pressed.
So I'm going to go ahead and select all my layers except for my background layer and I'm going to put
those into a folder.
I'm going to call this EF 1.
Enter then I'm going to copy this folder.
And on this new folder I'm gonna call it too because it's going to be framed too.
And then we're going to go ahead and open that up.
Now the first thing we want to add is we want to add our text someone to come to my text and I'm going
to turn off my devil and boss effect because in this next frame it's just going to be completely glowing
and it's going to be so bright that you won't even see the bevel.
And in Boston is of the text so let's add a new effect.
And we're going to add an outer glow then we're going to select our color.
So I'm going to select our purple that we have down here.
But I'm going to make it completely saturated like so.
OK.
And then we can go ahead and play with our setting so I have my opacity set to 100 percent and I'm going
to bring the size down so we can see it better.
So probably about there.
And then we can upload the speed but I'm going to leave that out for pixels.
I'm going to actually look at my color just a little bit so you can see it better.
So about there should be good.
OK.
All right.
I think this looks good.
Let's go ahead and hit.
OK.
Next we want to add a glow to our entire button.
So I'm going to come down here to my pillows shape and I'm going to select that shape and then I'm going
to add a new layer above it then I'm going to select our original purple color.
I'm going to go ahead and fill that in like so and then I'm going to come up to filter then come down
to blur.
We're going to use our guanine blur once again and then we can play with that.
See where we like it.
And I like it about at 24 25 pixels then we can go ahead and hit OK and then I'm going to bring down
the opacity on that layer so we can still see some of the stuff behind it.
But we so want it pretty bright so I'm going to bring it to about there.
Perfect.
All right.
So now we have our second frame.
Let's go ahead and close this folder up and we can see what this switch between the two frames will
look like.
By clicking this here this is what it would look like before it was pressed.
And then when it got pressed it would turn to this.
All right.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to make the two frames for your button.
You also learn how to create this really cool glossy effect for your button and you learn how to make
your lettering look like it's embossed into your actual button.
Now in the next lecture we're going to go ahead and set up a frame animation to see how this plays.
And then we're going to create a straight XI out of them so you can use them in your games.
Thanks for watching and I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.